---
bookCollapseSection: false
summary: The linux kernel compile process is very simular as with mainline linux and generally uses the same code base the only changes that have been made by Ingenic is to include modules, and specific configurations for the Ingenic processors, not all of witch have been included in the mainline Linux project.
---

# Compile the Linux Kernel

The linux kernel compile process is very simular as with mainline linux and generally uses the same code base the only changes that have been made by Ingenic is to include modules, and specific configurations for the Ingenic processors, not all of witch have been included in the mainline Linux project.


## Building

### Step 0 - Set enviroment variables

In the toolchain section we set an enviromental varable for the included mips-gcc toolchain. You will need to make sure that was either loaded into your .bashrc or set it again now manually
```
export PATH=/home/handy/projects/Ingenic-SDK-T31-1.1.1-20200508/toolchain/gcc_472/32bit/mips-gcc472-glibc216-32bit/bin:$PATH
```

### Step 1 - Prepare the config enviroment

```
make isvp_swan_defconfig
```

`isvp_swan_defconfig` refers to the Ingenic board default configuration


### Step 3 - Interactive menu configuration

menuconfig is an interactive Terminal User Interface (TUI) in common use for the Linux kernel configuration process. It allows you to navigate a tree of selections, it will produce a `.config` file by default, but you may name it whatever you like.

There are severation sections later on that refer to Kernel options by their menu tree in `menuconfig`.

```
make menuconfig
```

### Step 4 - Making configuration selections
TBD

#### Configuration Notes
The kernel's default configuration has a certain margin, but actual products often need to be pruned to free up more space. The following are several commonly used options and decriptions that can be cut
1. CONFIG_NETWORK_FILESYSTEMS:
	- Network file system, generally used to facilitate development, but it will take up more space, and can also be replaced by tftp. If NFS is not supported, Disable
1. CONFIG_KALLSYMS & CONFIG_KALLSYSMS_ALL: Kernel function symbol table, which will take up a log of space, and the function stack can display the function name when a panic occurs. WHen the kernel is stable, you can consider disabling this function. But it is recommended to enable this function before it is fully stable. 
1. Other filesystems. Generally, the file system will take up a log of space, and developers can modify the file system according to their needs.
1. Modules irrelevant to product definition can be cut, such as USB, Ethernet, TF card and so on.

{{< hint danger >}}
The deep pruning of the kernel has certain technical difficulties. Developers should try their best to understand the configuration in depth before proceeding preforming depth cropping.
{{< /hint >}}

### Step 5 - Compile the kernel

```
make uImage
```

`make` - Command to invoke the MakeFile

`uImage` - an image file that has a U-Boot wrapper (installed by the mkimage utility) that includes the OS type and loader information.
A very common practice (e.g. the typical Linux kernel Makefile) is to use a zImage file. Since a zImage file is self-extracting (i.e. needs no external decompressors), the wrapper would indicate that this kernel is "not compressed" even though it actually is.

### Step 6 - Collect your freshly baked kernel
If successfull you should see something like this output
```
TBD
```

The uImage file is located in `./arch/mips/boot/uImage` you may copy it to wherever you need to proceed along your adventure ... such as to your SD card.


## Important Note

For ko compilation other than kernel, it depends on kernel, and kernel must be
compiled. Whenever the kernel is changed, it may happen that ko cannot
be insmoded, or it can be insmoded but an unknown error will appear. This is because after the kernel is recompiled, the function Symbol table has changed,
and the ko driver needs to be recompiled to link the function correctly. At this point you need to recompile ko.
